Improve Test the Ulwazi theme guide (#588)
canonical/sphinx-docs-starter-pack: docs/contribute/test-ulwazi-theme.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The license information is now conveyed through the `license` key in `html_context`.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `default_edit_url` and `default_view_url` settings serve as fallback URLs for the view/edit source buttons on pages that do not have a specific source file path set.
```

Optional nit; I prefer to avoid starting a sentence with a lower-case letter if possible.

Reviewer: Just a note, not for this PR necessarily but for eventual implementation into the starter pack, it would be better not to use `main` here (or anywhere else) and have a variable set somewhere that reflects the branch to use, defaulting to `main`. Some repos use multiple branches for various versions.

This guide outlines the steps required to use the Ulwazi theme in your Sphinx documentation project.

We recommend creating a new branch of your repository and testing Ulwazi in that branch.
You can build the Ulwazi-themed documentation locally from the branch or open a PR and view the changes in its RTD preview.

## Update the dependencies

In your project's Python requirements (`requirements.txt`), replace the Canonical Sphinx package with Ulwazi and its dependencies:

```{code-block} diff
:caption: requirements.txt

- canonical-sphinx
+ sphinx
+ build
+ sphinx-autobuild
+ canonical-sphinx-config @ git+https://github.com/Canonical/canonical-sphinx-config.git@main
+ myst-parser~=4.0
+ sphinx-basic-ng
+ sphinxcontrib-jquery
+ beautifulsoup4
+ packaging
+ sphinxcontrib-svg2pdfconverter[CairoSVG]
+ sphinx-last-updated-by-git
+ sphinx-sitemap
+ sphinx-terminal
+ ulwazi
```

Be ready to add any other missing extensions if you see errors about them.

## Main configuration

Updating the project configuration is the most critical step in this process.

There are two main ways to do that:

> * Simple way -- Start from the [Default Ulwazi configuration](https://github.com/canonical/ulwazi/blob/main/docs/default-conf.py) and update the values for your specific documentation.

Reviewer 2: Two comments on this:

1. "Default Ulwazi configuration" sounds like config specific to Ulwazi. It didn't occur to me (until having read the 'simple' steps) that it's really a Starter Pack config with Ulwazi things on top. I think it would be better to say this outright: Start with this generic SP config file that has Ulwazi stuff configured.
2. For me, the simplest way to go about this would be to see a diff between a vanilla SP `conf.py` and the same file but with Ulwazi modifications. That would allow me to quickly change those settings in my config. (You're kind of doing that in the 'hard' way, but not really. A regular diff would be great. That said, it's also easy to do the diff on one's own, so maybe not required for docs.)

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/canonical/sphinx-docs-starter-pack/pull/588/commits/c5917866fd2a045ec5bc43338fdc56c6b20e1509

This guide outlines the steps required to use the Ulwazi theme in your Sphinx documentation project.

We recommend creating a new branch of your repository and testing Ulwazi in that branch.
You can build the Ulwazi-themed documentation locally from the branch or open a PR and view the changes in its RTD preview.

## Update the dependencies

> In your project's Python requirements (`requirements.txt`), replace the Canonical Sphinx package with Ulwazi and its dependencies:

Reviewer: It's unclear to me what's meant here by "Ulwazi's dependencies". A lot of these extensions already exist in the default starter pack extensions.txt.

Author: That's a great point, that leads me to an idea of separating minimum dependencies from the ones we use in our Ulwazi demo. I'll add it as a feature request to our GitHub issues.

```{code-block} diff
:caption: requirements.txt

- canonical-sphinx
+ sphinx
+ build
+ sphinx-autobuild
+ canonical-sphinx-config @ git+https://github.com/Canonical/canonical-sphinx-config.git@main
+ myst-parser~=4.0
+ sphinx-basic-ng
+ sphinxcontrib-jquery
+ beautifulsoup4
+ packaging
+ sphinxcontrib-svg2pdfconverter[CairoSVG]
+ sphinx-last-updated-by-git
+ sphinx-sitemap
+ sphinx-terminal

> + ulwazi

Reviewer: I would add sphinx-modern-pdf-style here as well. If someone follows the simpler approach described below, then sphinx_modern_pdf_style is included in the extensions list in default_conf.py, and the instruction to add sphinx-modern-pdf-style to requirements.txt only appears in the instructions for the harder approach. Might as well include it in the default requirements.txt even if not every docs set needs it (not every docs set needs myst-parser either but it's included).

```

Be ready to add any other missing extensions if you see errors about them.

## Main configuration

Updating the project configuration is the most critical step in this process.

> There are two main ways to do that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two main ways:
```

* Simple way -- Adapt the [Sample `conf.py` for Ulwazi](https://github.com/canonical/ulwazi/blob/main/docs/default-conf.py) by adjusting the values for your specific documentation.
* Hard way -- Adapt your existing configuration by adding all required values.

> We strongly recommend trying the first option (the simple way) first as it proved to be faster and less troublesome, yet enough for testing the theme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend trying the simple way first as it proved to be faster and less troublesome, yet enough for testing the theme.
```

Choose the hard way if your project already has significant `conf.py` customisation that would be difficult to recreate from the Sample `conf.py` for Ulwazi.

### The simple way

Here is the simple way of trying Ulwazi:

1. Copy the [Sample `conf.py` for Ulwazi](https://github.com/canonical/ulwazi/blob/main/docs/default-conf.py) file inside your documentation folder.
2. Rename the old `conf.py` to some other name, like `old-conf.py`.
3. Rename the sample configuration file to `conf.py`.
4. Open the old and new files side by side and update relevant values in the new configuration file for your specific product and documentation.

### The hard way

The following instructions describe the modifications needed to support Ulwazi in an existing `conf.py` file.

> Use this approach if you want to preserve as much of your original `conf.py` as possible, for example in a heavily customised deployment or when troubleshooting a configuration issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this approach if you want to preserve as much of your original `conf.py` as possible, for example in a heavily customized deployment or when troubleshooting a configuration issue.
```

This guide outlines the steps required to use the Ulwazi theme in your Sphinx documentation project.

We recommend creating a new branch of your repository and testing Ulwazi in that branch.

> You can build the Ulwazi-themed documentation locally from the branch, or open a PR and use RTD's preview branch feature to build a preview of the new look.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can build the Ulwazi-themed documentation locally from the branch or open a PR and view the changes in its RTD preview.
```
There are quite a lot of verbs in the latter half of this sentence (open, use, build). This is my attempt at making it a bit more concise.

This guide outlines the steps required to use the Ulwazi theme in your Sphinx documentation project.

We recommend creating a new branch of your repository and testing Ulwazi in that branch.
You can build the Ulwazi-themed documentation locally from the branch or open a PR and view the changes in its RTD preview.

## Update the dependencies

In your project's Python requirements, replace the Canonical Sphinx package with Ulwazi and its dependencies. The minimum set is:

> ```{code-block} text

Reviewer 3: We could use the `diff` syntax highlighting here to be very explicit like you did in the `extensions` block below.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/canonical/sphinx-docs-starter-pack/pull/588/commits/95aa2035a006d873044333eb4e6888af95c097cd

sphinxcontrib-svg2pdfconverter[CairoSVG]
sphinx-last-updated-by-git
sphinx-sitemap
sphinx-terminal
ulwazi
```

## Update the configuration

Updating the project configuration is the most critical step in this process.

> The Ulwazi repository provides a reference [`default-conf.py`](https://github.com/canonical/ulwazi/blob/main/docs/default-conf.py) with all required configuration options and TODO markers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Ulwazi repository provides a [reference configuration file](https://github.com/canonical/ulwazi/blob/main/docs/default-conf.py) with the required options.
```
Since the file is intermediate, I don't think it needs to be referenced by name.

You can prepare the configuration in one of two ways:

* **Start from scratch** — copy [`default-conf.py`](https://github.com/canonical/ulwazi/blob/main/docs/default-conf.py) and fill in the values for your documentation.
* **Update your existing config** — edit your current `conf.py` to add all required values.

We recommend starting from scratch with the default config, as it is the simpler path to getting initial results.

> If your documentation uses many custom configuration parameters, updating the existing config may be more practical.

Reviewer 3: > We recommend starting from scratch

I'd rather we be authoritative here and replace this with an instruction like:

> Copy the `default-conf.py` file from the Ulwazi repository. The following sections will instruct you on how to modify this file for your project.

We obviously don't have to use this exact wording.

Author: Thank you for this suggestion. I feel like the original wording was confusing and decided to change not only the wording here, but the structure of the document to highlight the alternatives.
I tried to make it more imperative too.

Reviewer 3: If you're keen on describing both processes, I think we should be guiding users on which path to take.

As a user, I'd be thinking:

> If this is strongly recommended, _why would I try the hard way_?

I think this section should speak to that question.

Author: I've added such clarification in the relevant section in https://github.com/canonical/sphinx-docs-starter-pack/pull/588/commits/95aa2035a006d873044333eb4e6888af95c097cd

* Hard way -- Adapt your existing configuration by adding all required values.

We strongly recommend trying the first option (the simple way) first as it proved to be faster and less troublesome, yet enough for testing the theme.
Choose the hard way if your project already has significant `conf.py` customisation that would be difficult to recreate from the Sample `conf.py` for Ulwazi.

### The simple way

Here is the simple way of trying Ulwazi:

1. Copy the [Sample `conf.py` for Ulwazi](https://github.com/canonical/ulwazi/blob/main/docs/default-conf.py) file inside your documentation folder.
2. Rename the old `conf.py` to some other name, like `old-conf.py`.
3. Rename the sample configuration file to `conf.py`.
4. Open the old and new files side by side and update relevant values in the new configuration file for your specific product and documentation.

### The hard way

The following instructions describe the modifications needed to support Ulwazi in an existing `conf.py` file.
Use this approach if you want to preserve as much of your original `conf.py` as possible, for example in a heavily customised deployment or when troubleshooting a configuration issue.

> For an example of all the changes, see the [Charmed Apache Kafka Ulwazi PR](https://github.com/canonical/kafka-operator/pull/444/files#diff-85933aa74a2d66c3e4dcdf7a9ad8397f5a7971080d34ef1108296a7c6b69e7e3).

Reviewer 2: Nitpick: The PR includes many other changes (formatting, etc.) that need to be ignored to see the Ulwazi-specific ones.

If providing an example diff/PR like this, it should be against the vanilla SP and free of anything else than the Ulwazi changes.

I realize that's likely out of scope of this PR, so I'd rather leave this out.

## The hard way

The following instructions describe the modifications needed to support Ulwazi in an existing `conf.py` file.

> Use this approach if you want to preserve as much of your original `conf.py` as possible, for example in a heavily customised deployment or when troubleshooting a configuration issue.

Reviewer 3: This is a good addition, but I think it should come before the fork. That is:

> We strongly recommend trying the first option ...
> 
> If your project is heavily customized and you need to preserve much of your original configuration, then you may need to ...

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/canonical/sphinx-docs-starter-pack/pull/588/commits/07bfaaec28ded4bbed9eff85616492a0b6d0e0c5

### Update the extensions

> In the list of extensions, replace `canonical-sphinx` with Ulwazi and its dependencies:

Reviewer 3: We haven't been monospacing extension names outside of code blocks.

See https://canonical-starter-pack.readthedocs-hosted.com/stable/release-notes/1.6/#new-extension-for-redirects

Author: That is not just the name of the extension, that is the literal from the list. If you want, I can make Ulwazi also a literal for consistency, but then the `its dependencies` would sound weird, IMHO. Let me know.

```suggestion
In the list of extensions, replace `canonical-sphinx` with `ulwazi` and its dependencies:
```

Author: Alternatively, if you insist on droping the monospace font:

```suggestion
In the list of extensions, replace Canonical Sphinx with Ulwazi and its dependencies:
```

Reviewer 3: > but then the its dependencies would sound weird, IMHO

I agree. That's why I suggested removing the formatting from canonical-sphinx instead.

It's ultimately a small detail, so I'll leave it to you. I'd have no real gripes with this being left unchanged. :shrug:

```{code-block} diff
:caption: extensions in conf\.py

> -"canonical-sphinx~=0.6"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-"canonical-sphinx~=0.6",
```

pygments_style = "autumn"    # see https://pygments.org/styles for more
```

#### Configure the sitemap

> Add the lastmod setting to the sitemap section:

Reviewer: Suggested change
      
    
    
      
          
            
            Add the lastmod setting to the sitemap section:
          
          
            
            Add the `lastmod` setting to the sitemap section:
          
      
    
    
  

Note this has been in the starter pack for a while; maybe add "if it doesn't already exist."

## Test the documentation

Once configuration is complete, do a final review.

> Make sure all required extensions are listed in both the `extensions` list in `conf.py` and the `requirements.txt` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once configuration is complete, make sure the required extensions are listed in both the `extensions` list in `conf.py` and the `requirements.txt` file.
```

## Test the documentation

> Once configuration is complete, make sure the required extensions are listed in both the `extensions` list in `conf.py` and the `requirements.txt` file.

Reviewer: Might be worth mentioning that extensions bundled with Sphinx (that start with `sphinx.ext.`, such as `sphinx.ext.intersphinx`) are exceptions; they only need to be listed in `conf.py`.
